OSDOCS-14904 DualStack enablement for OCP on AWS (#109773)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-aws-ingress-nlb-dual-stack.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ingress_load_balancing/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/configuring-ingress-cluster-traffic-aws.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-aws-ingress-nlb-dual-stack_{context}"]
= Dual-stack networking for the Ingress Controller load balancer on AWS

[role="_abstract"]

> On {aws-full}, an Ingress Controller must use a publishing `Service` type Network Load Balancer (NLB) to enable publishing over IPv4 and IPv6 when the cluster runs AWS dual-stack networking. A Classic Load Balancer (CLB) does not support the dual-stack publishing path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On {aws-full}, an Ingress Controller must use a publishing `Service` type Network Load Balancer (NLB) to enable publishing over IPv4 and IPv6 when the cluster runs {aws-short} dual-stack networking. A Classic Load Balancer (CLB) does not support the dual-stack publishing path.
```

:FeatureName: Dual-stack networking for {product-title} on {aws-full}
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
:!FeatureName:

If your Ingress Controller uses an NLB and the cluster-scoped `Infrastructure` resource named `cluster` contains `DualStackIPv4Primary` or `DualStackIPv6Primary` in the `status.platformStatus.aws.ipFamily` field, the Ingress Operator sets the Ingress Controller load balancer `Service` to dual-stack IP families.

The `Service` lists IPv4 first for `DualStackIPv4Primary` and IPv6 first for `DualStackIPv6Primary`.

> If the Ingress Controller uses a CLB and the cluster runs AWS dual-stack networking, the publishing load balancer stays IPv4-only. To expose the Ingress Controller over IPv4 and IPv6, you must configure the Ingress Controller to use an NLB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Ingress Controller uses a CLB and the cluster runs {aws-short} dual-stack networking, the publishing load balancer stays IPv4-only. To expose the Ingress Controller over IPv4 and IPv6, you must configure the Ingress Controller to use an NLB.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/configuring-ingress-cluster-traffic-aws.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-aws-ingress-nlb-dual-stack_{context}"]

> = Dual-stack networking for the Ingress Controller load balancer on AWS

Reviewer 2: The dual-stack installation feature is still in TechPreview. It was not GAed in 4.22 cycle. I don't see this doc account for this, we should mention `TechPreview` somewhere. Also, may be a sync with the installer's doc team is needed: was the installer documentation published?

Author: Fixed, thank you

[role="_abstract"]

> On {aws-full}, an AWS Network Load Balancer (NLB) can publish an Ingress Controller over IPv4 and IPv6 when your cluster uses AWS dual-stack networking. A Classic Load Balancer (CLB) does not support dual-stack for this publishing path.

Reviewer 2: I see it more as something along those lines:
```suggestion
On {aws-full}, an Ingress Controller should have a publishing service of type Network Load Balancer (NLB) to enable publishing over IPv4 and IPv6 when your cluster uses AWS dual-stack networking. A Classic Load Balancer (CLB) does not support dual-stack therefore cannot be used for dual-stack publishing path.
```

Author: Thanks!

> If you use an NLB and `status.platformStatus.aws.ipFamily` in the `cluster` `Infrastructure` resource is `DualStackIPv4Primary` or `DualStackIPv6Primary`, the Ingress Operator sets the Ingress Controller load balancer `Service` to dual-stack IP families.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you IngressController of type NLB and `status.platformStatus.aws.ipFamily` in the `cluster` `Infrastructure` resource is `DualStackIPv4Primary` or `DualStackIPv6Primary`, the Ingress Operator sets the Ingress Controller publishing load balancer `Service` to dual-stack IP families.
```

> If you use an NLB and `status.platformStatus.aws.ipFamily` in the `cluster` `Infrastructure` resource is `DualStackIPv4Primary` or `DualStackIPv6Primary`, the Ingress Operator sets the Ingress Controller load balancer `Service` to dual-stack IP families.

Reviewer 2: Should we say `cluster runs AWS dual-stack networking` similar to the phrases above and below? And give details about `Infrastructure` CR as a side comment (e.g. in parenthesis).

The `Service` lists IPv4 first for `DualStackIPv4Primary` and IPv6 first for `DualStackIPv6Primary`.

> If the Ingress Controller uses a CLB and the cluster runs AWS dual-stack networking, the publishing load balancer stays IPv4-only. To expose the Ingress Controller over IPv4 and IPv6, configure the Ingress Controller to use an NLB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the Ingress Controller uses a CLB type and the cluster runs AWS dual-stack networking, the publishing load balancer stays IPv4-only. To expose the Ingress Controller over IPv4 and IPv6, configure the Ingress Controller to use NLB type.
```

Author: This isn't how we reference NLB and CLB in our docset. It's a very API-forward phrasing, but we don't do that at the moment. Thanks for the suggestion!
